Release Policy replacement text and adding two diagrams for it. (#390)
open-edge-platform/edge-microvisor-toolkit: RELEASE_POLICY.md

# Releases and their Support

> The releases of Edge Microvisor Toolkit take three forms: major, minor, and weekly. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The releases of Edge Microvisor Toolkit take three forms: major, minor, and weekly.
```

During the 18-24 month support window for a major release of Edge Microvisor Toolkit, active support follows open-source practices, including the fixing of bugs found by the community. You can [open an issue](https://github.com/open-edge-platform/edge-microvisor-toolkit/issues) or [submit a design proposal or a pull request](./docs/developer-guide/emt-contribution.md).

A major release introduces significant changes to the operating system and its capabilities. These changes might include base operating system updates and a Linux kernel upgrade, which could affect software compatibility. A major release also typically includes new features, bug fixes, and CVE patches.

Beyond the active support window of 18-24 months, support will be in the form of a community-driven best effort. After the end of the 18-24 month active support window for a major release, it is recommended that you transition your Edge Microvisor Toolkit deployments to the next major release for continued support.

![Release cadence and support.](./docs/developer-guide/assets/emt-releases-and-support.png)

## Minor Releases

> A minor release, which delivers incremental updates on top of the current major version, typically occurs three times a year, in March, September, and December. These minor releases are part of the 18-24 month active support window of a major release. During the active support window, no separate branches other than the branch for the standalone node and the branch for the developer node are supported for every major and minor release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A minor release, which delivers incremental updates on top of the current major version, typically occurs three times a year, in March, September, and December. These minor releases are part of the 18-24 month active support window of a major release.
During the active support window, no separate branches other than the branch for the standalone node and the branch for the developer node are supported for every major and minor release.
```

> Minor releases aim to be seamless upgrades or updates that maintain the integrity of applications and data without requiring reimaging. Focused on continuous improvement, these non-disruptive minor releases might include package upgrades, new feature enablement, bug fixes, performance optimizations, and security vulnerability patches. Minor releases might also include new packages, such as developer tools and user applications, available through the Edge Microvisor Toolkit RPM repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Minor releases aim to be seamless upgrades or updates that maintain the integrity of applications and data without requiring reimaging. Focused on continuous improvement, these non-disruptive minor releases might include package upgrades, new feature enablement, bug fixes, performance optimizations, and security vulnerability patches.
Minor releases might also include new packages, such as developer tools and user applications, available through the Edge Microvisor Toolkit RPM repository.
```

## Weekly Releases

Weekly releases typically include bug fixes, performance optimizations, and vulnerability patches for known CVEs. You can find the latest weekly build in [Discussions](https://github.com/open-edge-platform/edge-microvisor-toolkit/discussions/categories/announcements?discussions_q=is%3Aopen+category%3AAnnouncements).

![Release cadence and support.](./docs/developer-guide/assets/emt-weekly-releases.png)

## No Long-Term Support

No long-term support version is maintained, nor planned. The most recent major version is the recommended stable release.

## Version Numbers

> Starting with the minor release planned for December 2025, Edge Microvisor Toolkit will adopt a `YEAR-BASED MAJOR.MONTH.PATCH` format. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Starting with the minor release planned for December 2025, Edge Microvisor Toolkit will adopt a `YEAR-BASED MAJOR.MONTH.PATCH` format.
```

> As a result, the version number of the minor release planned for December 2025 will be `25.06.1`, with the number for `MONTH` denoting the month in which the minor release's major version was released --- in this case, `06` for June. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As a result, the version number of the minor release planned for December 2025 will be `25.06.1`, with the number for `MONTH` denoting the month in which the minor release's major version was released --- in this case, `06` for June.
```

The minor release planned for March 2026 will be version number `25.06.2`, and the next major release, planned for June 2026, will advance to the following form: `26.06`.

## Get Support or Contribute on GitHub

> To get support for Edge Microvisor Toolkit or contribute to its development, see the following resources: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To get support for Edge Microvisor Toolkit or contribute to its development, see the following resources:
```

# Releases and their Support

The releases of Edge Microvisor Toolkit take three forms: major, minor, and weekly.

## Major Releases

> A major release of Edge Microvisor Toolkit typically occurs once a year in June. New feature development takes place on the latest major release and its subsequent minor releases. Every major release is supported for 18 to 24 months. The minor releases are part of the active maintenance window. There are no separate branches created or maintained for either the major release or minor releases during the active maintenance window.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A major release of Edge Microvisor Toolkit typically occurs once a year in June. New feature development takes place on the latest major release and its subsequent minor releases. Every major release is supported for 18 to 24 months. 
The minor releases are part of the active maintenance window. There are no separate branches created or maintained for either the major release or minor releases during the active maintenance window.
```

# Release Policy
# Releases and their Support

Edge Microvisor Toolkit receives a major release in the cadence of three to four months.
Major releases, versioned as 3.x to remain aligned with Azure Linux, offer both functional
and technical improvements.
The releases of Edge Microvisor Toolkit take three forms: major, minor, and weekly.

> <!-- how do we treat minor updates? Minor releases, versioned as ???????, offer ????? -->

Reviewer 2: Please refer to Vladimir's version document for OEP

> A major release of Edge Microvisor Toolkit typically occurs once a year in June. New feature development takes place on the latest major release and its subsequent minor releases. Every major release is supported for 18 to 24 months. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A major release of Edge Microvisor Toolkit typically occurs once a year in June. New feature development takes place on the latest major release and its subsequent minor releases. Every major release is supported for 18 to 24 months.
```

## Major Releases

The updates may come in different publishing cadence and scope:
A major release of Edge Microvisor Toolkit typically occurs once a year in June. New feature development takes place on the latest major release and its subsequent minor releases. Every major release is supported for 18 to 24 months.
The minor releases are part of the active maintenance window. There are no separate branches created or maintained for either the major release or minor releases during the active maintenance window.

> <!-- is this cadence correct? How do we explain these differences? -->

Reviewer 2: Yes, I think this is correct. What differences are you specifically referring to here?

## Minor Releases

A minor release, which delivers incremental updates on top of the current major version, typically occurs three times a year, in March, September, and December. These minor releases are part of the 18-24 month active support window of a major release.

> During the active support window, no separate branches other than the branch for the standalone node and the branch for the developer node are supported for every major and minor release.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
During the active support window, only the branches for the standalone node and the developer node are supported for every major and minor release.
```

Which branches? There are many branches in both repositories, I assume we mean "only the dev branches" or "only the main branches" ... BTW, is standalone going to be developed within the main repo now? If not, we shouldn't talk about branches but rather the two repos.

Reviewer 2: I think what is being referred to here is that we are keeping the main branch the active one for development, no separate release branches. The dev branches are a given. Perhaps just some rewording so this does not create confusion.

Author: Replaced text to resolve comment. The new text is from the updated support strategy PPT. Pls double check the fix. Thanks

Reviewer 3: I'm slightly out of the loop now, due to vacation, but once I'm back and up to speed, I propose we revise this content one more time, so that the user has a clear picture and is not confused by the 3.1 version being developed on the 3.0 branch. And maybe we can also clarify the EMT-S confusion as well.
